doc: Bluetooth: Mesh: Added new Sensor API migration doc (#14155)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/migration/migration_guide_2.6.rst

* For LwM2M applications, replace the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LWM2M_CLIENT_UTILS_DTLS_CID` Kconfig option with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LWM2M_DTLS_CID`.

> * For Mesh applications, the Sensor API has been re-written, and the previous Sensor API is to be depreciated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For Mesh applications, the Sensor API has been re-written, and the previous Sensor API is deprecated.
```

  A new Sensor API has been created that should be used for new applications and applications that will be continuously updated.

>   How the new Sensor API is working is shown in the :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_client`, :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server` and :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc` samples, as they all have been updated to use the new Sensor API.

Reviewer: I don't know if we should do this now or after the docs are updated, but `bt_mesh_sensors_readme` should also be linked here since that contains the detailed description of how all the API pieces fit together (or, it will do, once it's updated)

>   It is important to use the new Sensor API as it has a better precision than the deprecated Sensor API.

Reviewer: I'd remove this entire sentence. It's incorrect as it is, it could be rewritten to "It is important to use the new Sensor API as it can provide better precision in some use cases", but then it doesn't have much value ("why is it then important if it doesn't provide any value in my use case?"). The changelog already mentions increased precision, those who don't need that for their use case won't use that as an argument for using the new API.

  The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` is set default to `=y`.

>   This means for existing applications there is no need to do anything to continue using the depreciated Sensor API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This means for existing applications there is no need to do anything to continue using the deprecated Sensor API.
```

  The application will get a deprecation warning when compiled, that the user can choose to disregard.

>   This will work until the depreciation periode is over for the deprecated Sensor API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This will work until the deprecation period is over for the deprecated Sensor API.
```

>   When the depreciation period is over the deprecated Sensor API will be removed, and the application will no longer compile if not updated to the new Sensor API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When the deprecation period is over the deprecated Sensor API will be removed, and the application will no longer compile if not updated to the new Sensor API.
```

>   New and existing applications that shall use the new Sensor APIs must set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` to `=n` in their configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  New and existing applications that will use the new Sensor APIs must set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` to `=n` in their configuration.
```

  This configuration value will be removed when the deprecation periode is over, and the configuration value then need to be removed from the application configuration.

>   It is important to check if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPU` is set to `=y` to support floating point operations, and possible add :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CBPRINTF_FP_SUPPORT` to support floating point printing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It is important to check if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPU` is set to `=y` to support accellerated floating point operations, and possible add :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CBPRINTF_FP_SUPPORT` to support floating point printing.
```

(floating point operations will still work with `CONFIG_FPU=n`, but they will be slow)

>   For sensor functionality used in the application, application variables and function/callback variables defined as :c:struct:`sensor_value` shall now use :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.

Reviewer: Not correct. Application variables can be whatever the application wants, even `sensor_value`.

Suggested rewrite: 
```suggestion
  Sensor API arguments and callback parameters previously defined as :c:struct:`sensor_value` now use :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.
```

>   The :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value`.format need to be defined for application variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value`.format needs to be filled by the application for variables passed to the API.
```

>   There are several different types of :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_format` described in the :file:`sensor_types.h`.

Reviewer: Mention that the correct format to use when filling in a sensor value for a channel can be found through `sensor->type.channels[i].format` for a given `struct bt_mesh_sensor sensor`

>   The :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_format` has a :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_format_cb` that is used through a set of converter functions for each format.

Reviewer: This is an implementation detail and we should not mention it here, it will only cause people to start messing with `cb` directly which is something we specifically _don't_ want. 

Suggested rewording:
```suggestion
  :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value`s with a valid `format` can be converted to and from integer, float and `struct sensor_value` through `bt_mesh_sensor_value_to/from*` functions.
```

* For LwM2M applications, replace the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LWM2M_CLIENT_UTILS_DTLS_CID` Kconfig option with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LWM2M_DTLS_CID`.

> * For Mesh applications, the Sensor API has been re-written, and the previous Sensor API is deprecated.
>   A new Sensor API has been created that should be used for new applications and applications that will be continuously updated.
>   The new Sensor API is described in :ref:`bt_mesh_sensors_readme`.
>   Usage is shown in :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_client`, :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server` and :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc` samples, as they all have been updated to use the new Sensor API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For the Bluetooth Mesh samples and applications, a new sensor API (see :ref:`bt_mesh_sensors_readme`) is introduced with |NCS| v2.6.0.
  The previous sensor API is deprecated.
   
  The usage of the new sensor API is demonstrated in samples :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_client`, :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server` and :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc`.
```

>   The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` is set default to `=y`.

Reviewer 3: Should we tell where to find documentation for the old API?

Author: People that has used the old API knows how it is working already, and can use the old documentation. The just want confirmation on what they have is working. The people other type of people want to know about the new API. And sometime is a good that it is hard to find API that we do not want them to use, and easy to find API we want them to use.

>   The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` is set default to `=y`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` is enabled by default in the deprecation period.
```

>   This means for existing applications there is no need to do anything to continue using the deprecated Sensor API.
>   The application will get a deprecation warning when compiled, that the user can choose to disregard.
>   This will work until the deprecation period is over for the deprecated Sensor API.
>   When the deprecation period is over the deprecated Sensor API will be removed, and the application will no longer compile if not updated to the new Sensor API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This means that the existing samples and applications can continue using the deprecated sensor API as normal during the deprecation period, without the additional configuration.
  The samples and applications will get a deprecation warning when compiled, that the user can choose to disregard.
  
  When the deprecation period is over, the deprecated sensor API will be removed, and the samples and applications will no longer compile unless updated to the new sensor API.
```

  New and existing applications that want to use the new Sensor APIs must set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` to `=n` in their configuration.
  This configuration value will be removed when the deprecation periode is over, and the configuration value then need to be removed from the application configuration.

>   It is important to check if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPU` is set to `=y` to support accelerated floating point operations, and possible add :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CBPRINTF_FP_SUPPORT` to support floating point printing.

Reviewer 3: This ideally should be mentioned on the sensor API doc page.

Reviewer 3: Added as a comment to NCSDK-23375

Author: I agree that it should be mention in the sensor API doc page, but I still think it should be here to. It can be easy to miss in the other documentation and the people that it is reading may already have their code and just want to quickly update their code, without reading to much of the new sensor API doc.

>   * Application variables, Sensor API arguments and callback parameters previously defined with :c:struct:`sensor_value` now uses :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.

Author: I actual thinks the "Applicatioin variables" should be kept. The user should remember to check his/her application variables, if they should be changed to.

>   * Application variables, Sensor API arguments and callback parameters previously defined with :c:struct:`sensor_value` now uses :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.

Reviewer: Application variables typically should never be defined using `bt_mesh_sensor_value`. They should be `sensor_value`, `float`, whatever their actual use case/sensor driver provides/expects. So if you want to mention this, then you have to reword it, because "uses bt_mesh_sensor_value_instead" is definitely wrong for application variables.

>   * Application variables, Sensor API arguments and callback parameters previously defined with :c:struct:`sensor_value` now uses :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.

Author: Then it is wrong in our own sample https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/blob/20c55d105e83c24746ed9102f846b4d9c76d3391/samples/bluetooth/mesh/sensor_server/src/model_handler.c#L63C1-L69C1

>   * Application variables, Sensor API arguments and callback parameters previously defined with :c:struct:`sensor_value` now uses :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.

Reviewer: Settings are the exception I think, but if you take a look at the lines immediately below you see that `gain` and ambient light value for example are `float` now (which was my point here). But I see your point that it should be mentioned, what about this then?

```suggestion
  * Sensor API arguments, callback parameters and relevant application variables previously defined with :c:struct:`sensor_value` now use :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.
```

                }
        +        err = bt_mesh_sensor_value_from_sensor_value(
        +                sensor->type->channels[0].format, &channel_val, rsp);
        +        if (err) {
        +                printk("Error encoding temperature sensor data (%d)\n", err);
        +        }

                return err;
        }

  Example of changes need to be done for sensor using float values.

    ..  code-block:: diff

        static int amb_light_level_get(struct bt_mesh_sensor_srv *srv,
                                       struct bt_mesh_sensor *sensor,
                                       struct bt_mesh_msg_ctx *ctx,
        -                               struct sensor_value *rsp)
        +                               struct bt_mesh_sensor_value *rsp)
        {
                int err;

                /* Report ambient light as dummy value, and changing it by pressing
                 * a button. The logic and hardware for measuring the actual ambient
                 * light usage of the device should be implemented here.
                 */
        -        double reported_value = amb_light_level_gain * dummy_ambient_light_value;

>         +        float reported_value = amb_light_level_gain * dummy_ambient_light_value;

Author: I would rather have it like the way it is. Because that matches what is done in samples. That way people can actual match this up against what was done for our sample to see the difference. It then does becomes more real.

  The SoftDevice Controller will for some time not have a QDID for the ISO operation.

* For Mesh applications, the Sensor API has been re-written, and the previous Sensor API is deprecated.
  A new Sensor API has been created that should be used for new applications and applications that will be continuously updated.
  The new Sensor API is described in :ref:`bt_mesh_sensors_readme`.
  Usage is shown in :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_client`, :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server` and :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc` samples, as they all have been updated to use the new Sensor API.

  The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` is set default to `=y`.
  This means for existing applications there is no need to do anything to continue using the deprecated Sensor API.
  The application will get a deprecation warning when compiled, that the user can choose to disregard.
  This will work until the deprecation period is over for the deprecated Sensor API.
  When the deprecation period is over the deprecated Sensor API will be removed, and the application will no longer compile if not updated to the new Sensor API.

>   New and existing applications that want to use the new Sensor APIs must set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` to `=n` in their configuration.
>   This configuration value will be removed when the deprecation periode is over, and the configuration value then need to be removed from the application configuration.
>   It is important to check if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPU` is set to `=y` to support accelerated floating point operations, and possible add :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CBPRINTF_FP_SUPPORT` to support floating point printing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  To use the new sensor API for new and existing samples and applications, disable the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_SENSOR_USE_LEGACY_SENSOR_VALUE` in the configuration.
  This configuration option will be removed when the deprecation period is over, and then it has to be removed from the sample and application configuration.
  It is also recommended to enable the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPU` to support the accelerated floating point operations, and the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CBPRINTF_FP_SUPPORT` to support the  floating point printing.
```

Author: I have a question. Is it correct to add "samples and applications" instead of just "applications". The samples using sensor API are updated, and the users should not migrate samples. So why add samples?

>   * Sensor API arguments and callback parameters previously defined with :c:struct:`sensor_value` now uses :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Sensor API arguments and callback parameters previously defined with :c:struct:`sensor_value` now use :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` instead.
```

>   * The :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value`.format needs to be filled by the application for variables passed to the Sensor API.

Reviewer 2: Is this correct, the struct?

Reviewer: I think this needs to be:
```suggestion
  * :c:member:`bt_mesh_sensor_value.format` needs to be filled by the application for variables passed to the Sensor API.
```

>   * The :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value`.format needs to be filled by the application for variables passed to the Sensor API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * The :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value.format` needs to be filled by the application for variables passed to the sensor API.
```

>   * There are several different types of :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_format` described in the :file:`include/bluetooth/mesh/sensor_types.h`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * There are several different types of :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_format` described in the file :file:`include/bluetooth/mesh/sensor_types.h`.
```

>   * When filling in sensor values for a channel the format can be found through ``sensor->type.channels[i].format`` defined for the given :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor` ``sensor``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * When filling in sensor values for a channel, the format can be found through ``sensor->type.channels[i].format`` defined for the given :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor` sensor.
```

>   * The :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_format` with a valid `format` can be converted to and from integer, float and :c:struct:`sensor_value` through `bt_mesh_sensor_value_to/from*` functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_format` with a valid format can be converted to and from integer, float and :c:struct:`sensor_value` through ``bt_mesh_sensor_value_to/from*`` functions.
```

Reviewer: Actually, there is something weird here, I think we mean
```suggestion
  * :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_value` with a valid format can be converted to and from integer, float and :c:struct:`sensor_value` through ``bt_mesh_sensor_value_to/from*`` functions.
```

>   * Where the applications previously just added values directly to :c:struct:`sensor_value`.val1 and .val2, now the correct way is to use `bt_mesh_sensor_value_to/from*` functions to either set/extract values.

Reviewer 2: Should :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_format` references also be :c:member:`bt_mesh_sensor_value.format`? Or is this something else?

Reviewer: `bt_mesh_sensor_value.format` is `* struct bt_mesh_sensor_format`, so one is the struct itself, the other is the field on the `bt_mesh_sensor_value`. So what to reference depends on what you want to talk about (sensor values or sensor formats)

Author: In line 698 it is correct with the struct bt_mesh_sensor_format, they are different.

>   * Where the applications previously just added values directly to :c:struct:`sensor_value`.val1 and .val2, now the correct way is to use `bt_mesh_sensor_value_to/from*` functions to either set/extract values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Where the applications previously just added values directly to :c:struct:`sensor_value.val1` and :c:struct:`sensor_value.val2`, the correct way now is to use the ``bt_mesh_sensor_value_to/from*`` functions to either set or extract the values.
```

Reviewer: Isn't it `:c:member:`?
```suggestion
  * Where the applications previously just added values directly to :c:member:`sensor_value.val1` and :c:member:`sensor_value.val2`, the correct way now is to use the ``bt_mesh_sensor_value_to/from*`` functions to either set or extract the values.
```

Author: I saw the same, and fixed it.

>   Example of changes need to be done for sensor using sensor_values, from e.g. drivers/sensor.h

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Example of changes that need to be done for a sensor using sensor values from the file :file:`drivers/sensor.h`:
```

    ..  code-block:: diff

        static int chip_temp_get(struct bt_mesh_sensor_srv *srv,
                                 struct bt_mesh_sensor *sensor,
                                 struct bt_mesh_msg_ctx *ctx,
        -                         struct sensor_value *rsp)
        +                         struct bt_mesh_sensor_value *rsp)
        {
        +        struct sensor_value channel_val;
                int err;

                sensor_sample_fetch(dev);

        -        err = sensor_channel_get(dev, SENSOR_DATA_TYPE, rsp);
        +        err = sensor_channel_get(dev, SENSOR_DATA_TYPE, &channel_val);
                if (err) {
                        printk("Error getting temperature sensor data (%d)\n", err);
                }
        +        err = bt_mesh_sensor_value_from_sensor_value(
        +                sensor->type->channels[0].format, &channel_val, rsp);
        +        if (err) {
        +                printk("Error encoding temperature sensor data (%d)\n", err);
        +        }

                return err;
        }

>   Example of changes need to be done for sensor using float values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Example of changes that need to be done for a sensor using the float values:
```
